This lecture, I'm going to spend a bunch of time grooming the body hair of my animal, trying to get
the paws and the tail and the body and the neck looking a little bit more the way I want it to look.
So let's get started.
There's a few things we need to do to groom the body of our animal and get it prepared so that the body
is different to the head in terms of our fur particle system.
And I'm going to give this to you as a challenge.
I want you to groom your body every every body.
That's a little bit of a joke.
Granted, not a good one, but a joke nonetheless.
Use white painting and vertex groups to isolate your body, your animals body hair to just the relevant
parts.
We've done this before, so you should be pretty clear on how to go about doing that.
Groom their hair so it looks just how you want it to.
This is the body hair and the feet hair.
And as I was saying before, the feet can be part of the body particle system or a separate system.
That's up to you.
I'll probably include the feet as part of my body particle system and just reduce the length of it and
groom it in a way so that it makes sense for my particular animal.
And one point as well as I have talked about before.
Also, if you wanted to create patches or spots or stripes on your animal, then you could set up multiple
vertex groups and you could paint those areas with the relevant fur.
So you have one color fur, say, the lighter color that you paint in certain areas, and then you go
in and patent stripes or circles or dots or whatever, it is relevant to your animal, particularly
on the tail.
You can have stripes on the tail as you go down the back of the town.
That would be just multiple vertex groups.
For me, I'm just going to do the one vertex group and probably have my cat to be a ginger ninja.
So there is the challenge.
Take your time to work on that.
And when you're done, I'll see you back here and I'll go through my approach.
I'll start by setting out vertex groups.
So in my object data properties, click on the plus button here.
Rename this double click to be body hair.
I think that's a good one.
And then jump over to the particle system all the way down the bottom.
We're looking for vertex groups.
Density will click on the little select to their annual selected body hair.
Currently, nothing is painted, so we need to jump to white paint.
And I find this easier scrolling up.
I'm I'm I'm just going to hide my particle system by clicking on the real time display modifier and
viewport.
There we go.
And this will make things go quicker.
While I'm wait painting.
I'm going to make my brush huge.
Just quickly paint the entire animal, because what I'll do is unpainted the couple of areas that I
don't want the fur to be.
I find that's quicker than painting the whole thing and trying to act, you know, not paint the face.
OK.
Change a brush size, put the weight all the way down to zero.
Now we're going to paint the blue area, which says no hair shall go here.
Put extra attention into your ears if you're following the same process as me.
That's the area that I find I often miss just a little bit over the years.
Then we have this random hair poking out is kind of like old man nasal hairs if you know any old man
in your life.
They often get those weird kind of nasal hairs that just randomly come poking out of old man's noses.
Not speaking from experience, mind you.
Just, you know, making a casual observation.
And if you want, you can do a little bit of blur just around the edge, so it's smooth.
I don't find this makes a huge difference because we do have quite a bit of Scrabble going on with our
hair anyway.
So it doesn't matter so much.
Can I?
Let's turn our particle system back on and see.
There we go.
Good.
Couple of those four random weird has to come through.
As I mentioned before, that could be a white painting thing or it could be something else.
If we go into our particle edit, you can see that we still have all these hairs on here that were generated.
Just when we do our white system, we're saying ignore those ones down this and I find them distracting.
So I'm just going to go through and either reduce them in length or cut them.
I'll start off by cutting them just to give me a head start.
You don't have to do this.
But like I say, I kind of sometimes get a little bit confused when I go into this view and think,
hang on a minute.
And why are there hairs all over the face?
Object mode.
Next up, I'll focus on these couple of little bald patches that mostly when the camera is looking directly
at it, I need to make sure that it's groomed so that we OK.
There's a big gap there.
That's the problem.
That's out.
A few more hairs.
Make sure that my interpolate is on and count at one.
So just drop some hairs in here.
Just the hair restoration process.
If only it was this easy in real life, huh?
Just cruise around the animals, see if you can find any more areas that you think that's going to be
a problem and fill up those bald patches years.
Take a look at that.
Looking reasonably good.
Might need a little bit of grooming.
So let's start operation grooming, push things the way we want them to be.
Now, obviously, if you want to have a really slick look on your cat, let me just quickly do that.
I'll put to my path selection and brush everything very close to the skin of my cat, jumped back to
object mode.
You see, that gives a much slicker look much more brush down, which I think for a lot of cats is relevant.
A lot of shorthair animals.
That would be a more of a relevant look, son, do that, because I do think having a bit of a puffier
look for this creature is going to work for me in this instance.
So looking super angular.
Here, let me do a quick rendered as if that actually truly is angular or if that's just in the low
res view.
OK.
It's not too bad.
Pretty happy with that.
OK.
Let's pay attention now to the legs and the feet.
I'm just going to quickly go through this and groom mine so it looks more sensible.
I'll probably just cut the long ones over to a hair cutting, particularly underneath the feet.
But just a little bit of macro cutting here.
First of all, and then shorten the length.
Groom in the right direction.
And I think that will be enough for my cat legs.
Generally, I put a fair bit of time and effort into one of the legs and then use that as a little bit
of a template for figuring out how to do the other ones.
I want to show you this little bit here where you can see we've got a number of his going in, all seeming
like they're ending at the same length that creates this weird kind of blob of hair, that kind of effect
there.
Usually that's cause when we've got only one particle that all the information is coming from.
So we've got all the children doing exactly the same thing in a large area.
So I find what is best in that case is just to go in and add a couple of other hairs nearby and then
we get less of that sort of weird clumpy look to it.
OK.
It's looking better to test Rendon to see how that is coming along.
Generally, it's looking neat and tidy at this back like here, literally a bald spot on the front.
And then a bit of bald spot, the middle area.
But the general grooming is okay.
Probably a bit too long on the poor underneath as well.
So I'll go tidy that up and then I'll go ahead and do my other paws as well.
Okay.
I thought I'd finish my cat and I was already to wrap up this lecture, but then I decided just to see
what would happen if I smooth down all the hair.
Just gave her a macro kind of smooth, smooth, smooth and see what happens.
And I kind of like to look better.
It makes the cat look a little bit more athletic, I think, rather than my cat was starting to get
a little bit too hairy, a little bit too puffed up and looking a little bit out of shape.
So I'm going through and just kind of smoothing down a little bit closer to the body so that I can retain
a bit more of the original sculpting contour that I had.
But the couple of processes that we've gone through, puffing out the hair versus having it close to
the body, it's a good way for you to look there and see what sort of look you want to go for your cat.
If you find that it's too close to the body, nakedness, jump over into the puff tool, puff it up
a little bit, give a little bit of that full body depth to the hair.
Do.
If that's what you're after.
So I think that's it for me for this lecture.
I've got the cat looking pretty much how I want it to look and will jump over into the next one, pay
little attention to their head and whiskers.
Okay.
Great work.
See you again soon.